02/04/2020: Principal and Design

you need to rely on some tools to help you design the viz
THe wall is more ambiguous today

We are all designers and not just programmers. 
memes can be programmable

we spend most time being users but spend less time being designers
CT scan shows different density in different cases. The viz helps to show this

we change priority in applying colors. In kisses case we use categorical numbers in sequential collors

use perception rules to guide the design process
we know qas users how to interpret it 
keep in mind
by perception rules: the brain does not tell you but you just recognize them
it includes : we have to understand data type (7 types) and recognize viz tasks
and lastly other design choices made by the user

Data Ink ratio: Tufte. More standard way. 
Minimalistic bar chart. Focus on the data and not the rest of the stuff
Left chart uses extra ink for background. If you can minimize it, we can focus more on the data.
But people like colors. People like eye appeasing engagement with the user.

Underground london tunner. Different color shows different trains. 
London tube line. The thyme river is usefull because it gives reference to west and east bank
SOme landmarks are references for users to understand what is where.

A) just users different colors for different trains. But headed in same dirrection.
B) Different trains but on same line. So use shades of green .
C) Sequential colors use a lot of space. Rather use the space to display more info. C combined all trains in same direction in one line. 
Vary differently based on visual elements

NEed to consider the domain in designing.
Look in to literature
Know the limits you can display
need key elements to improve the already available.
Practive makes you read better. 

SOmetimes we need cheat sheets to understand the trends, the qualities, the scheme we need to understand to read the viz
DIrections make it easier for viewer to know where to look at. 

Wow factors are created by all but need to use it properly to have a wow effect. 

Point of interests are highlighted. The technique is simple. No extra stuff. Generalization improve clarity. BEcause only imp details are emphasised. 
Balance the two: 
Manipulate the pereption and communicate intent of viz.

Human subject experiments. User studies. To understand how user thinks. 

															02-06-2020 Continue

Guidelines:
too complex? Problem if the audience is novice
too abstract? present the functions sequentially and then communicate the combinations of those functions in a conceptual way
too boring? is this done already? need something new?

(wine and food) Cool but not good enough. BEcause, this is not a scientific sound improvement. Line gets misstranslated in the middle. More sequential way of presenting a kind of a network. 
(networks) Network view is also complicated when a lot of nodes and links are present. 
(think not a designer) CHart suggestions - A thought starter. 