02-11-2020 Perception and Attention

How the perception differes from left and right eye ?

The truth about relativity: Predictable irrational

Does not communicate for doors unless written.

We learn a lot from ourinteractions. Those results help us to design actual stuff.
The results of our visual representations replace cognitive calculations. But each decision is related to user's individual memory. But what we can augment is time people need to comprehend. But we cant control the background the user is in.

Split second of time saving. Human Factor. 

Think about binary matrix (1-link present, 0-no link) we can represent it as a network. We have a corresponding datatype. Time series, space (planes in x and y), relational network because of the complexity. To not confuse our eyes, we need different types of curves to distinguish between different relations.

Lines: why parallel lines is not a good representation. Here we have only 6 categories of a time series. Tall data is better than wide data. Continuous over time. Somehow still differentiate between different line but it is difficult when they collide. Similar to parallel lines.

Interactive search and filtering is often used to compensate for this problem.
Filters are preset variables. 
Search is another interaction. 
More easy to understand complex line chart. 

What if it is not possible to do interactions? WE can use stacked graphs. But this has a disadvantage, we can noly see proportional difference but if they are similar it is hard to distinguish. It is good enough for seeing trends but not for comparison.

Small multiples. Same x and y charts. Tries to leverage our learning time. Easy to compare between different categories. See the true resolutions of each category.

Small comparisions. Envisioning information. Similarity nd proximation. Visually ennforcing our eyes to do the comparision and find the differences. 

Stroop effect. Encourage our eyes to compare. But when we do comparisions we often get off balanced by colors. different color for different color names confuses the eyes and the mind's breakdown of understanding. Because the delay is needed to communicate what you see and what you read and then make an informed decision.

Adopting accuracy as a criterion is a conceptual trap.

Seeing, perceiving, knowing. We have limitations with memory and comprehension without having a lot of time. 
Limitations based upon working memory capacity.
Make users focus on only the necessary pattern. 

Elementary perception tasks. 
Compare different charts. Harder to differentiate without alignment, scales etc. Here bar chart is better than pie chart. 
Also if there is no alignment, no relativity it is harder to compare. 

Perception accuracy: High to Low
		Position along a common scale - alignment makes it better.
		Position along nonaligned scales - 
		Length, direction, angle - elements we need to apply.
		Area - 
		Volume, curvature - 
		Shading, color saturation - 

Recognize by remembering: mind corrects some discrepencies we see in the background because thats how we remember it when we see it somewhere else.

Graphical form involves a lot in our preceptual tasks. 

Increase engagement. Hand drawing increases the engagement in charts. But in bar charts it reduces the effect because it shows inconsistencies. So need to know where your choice has a better effect. 

What makes viz memorable? 