02-18-2002 MAPS

Normalizations: How do we deal with it to present and interpret data in an area (maps)? 

Maps give us oerview of general area and an overview of general idea. Zoom and filter help us to see different levels of information.

Once you are oriented around the landmarks we can look into the details then?

Making a mental map of the direction you are travelling and comparing it to real world? 

Orientation ability: how our brains rotate when we look at the map? how we tell ourselfs to follow the direction? There is a compass on the maps to tell us the direction we are moving towards: north, south etc.
Varies from individual to individual. Affects the way how we find way. Our perception makes the difference of how we perceive it. 

Spatial Ability: mentally manipulate 2D and 3D objects.
Its the capacity to unerstand and remember the spatial relations among objects.



Visual Image vs Verbal Image:
How the readers interpret? This is how. THey use these two things. 
Look at the visual information, you remember the glimps of the shape and their orientation. 
We try to remember the visual info as a sequence of objects but we dont connect it the type of objects and the properties of objects.

Effects of Spatial Ability:



Our attention/focus need to be summariezed. 

Multidimensional information could fill in the gap between individual difference and various needs and contexts.
How do we have one that fits all? 
We can implement something like this when making spatial vizualisations. 
THere is very small room of error.

Multidimensional viz is not always the best solution. 
Why not give them a 3D view for more information. But it turns out the cost of reaction time makes it ambiguous to infer. 

3D bar chart is not easy to understand. Still you need 2D bar chart for precise comparisons.

how do we remember the locations and the spaces around us?
- Landmark knowledge: salient and recognizable objects
- Route knowledge: consist of sequences of landmarks
- Survey knowledge: built by personal experience through exploration, represent distance and relationships among landmarks

It can also be a combination of these for better understanding. These cognitive maps attach the sentiments to it based on an individual's background.

Combination of linear and spatial way gives the user personalization feel.

Today, we get and estimated generalized and interpretation of true geographic conditions. 
The map is trying to make it more universal and also comprehensible of all information.

Universal language of thoughts and how we perceive so we can make an aproximation without actually knowing the language.

How to reconstruct the map. Connect all info we have. 
Information retieval. Ranking, mapping etc. 
aka: Information systems. eg: Dewey decimal system

Map can be built into multi-views. 
It also matters individually and is different for all. 
How do we create a map which everyone can understand. Make it more catered for the users.

Entity workspace: combination of all entities and their connections. Each piece of evidence can be extracted and connected. The metadata can establish links between all the evidence. 

Geographic Profiling: The condensed heat map density view will show those evidence freq based upon how those events happened. 

we dont read maps when they are very comples. we need interactions to find precise info.
Presenting info 
Exploring info: to leave the users the path to explore new stuff. 

Mashup: see maps and text data side by side.
eg: Craiglist: gives aggregate information .Heat map, density map. 

